Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a drama, family,
and fantasy film called “Pinocchio."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In a faraway land, there lives a poor carpenter
named Geppetto; he makes a living out of carving
wood and building anything out of it.
One day, he heads to the town restaurant in
hopes of earning more money to have a hearty
meal.
Inside, he sees some of his friends dining
together but pays no mind to him.
He tells Moreno, the owner, that the chairs
and the table in the restaurant are no longer
sturdy, and repairing it would be a great
idea.
Contrary to that, Moreno thinks that everything
in his place is fine as is.
Desperate to earn something, Geppetto insists
that he will charge him a low price, but the
owner dismisses him repeatedly.
Upon exiting, he tries to convince Moreno
that the door needs repair, but Moreno knows
why Geppetto acts that way.
He invites Geppetto to sit down and serves
him a generous amount of soup and bread.
Outside, he stumbles upon a puppet theater
where a man advertises it to the townsfolk.
He invites everyone to join the entertainment
that night for an affordable price.
Curiously, Geppetto takes a peek into the
carriage to see the puppets, but the man pulls
him away, as it will be a surprise to everyone.
Another carpenter named Mastro Ciliegia is
about to cut a single log into pieces when
it suddenly moves.
To his surprise, the magical log approaches
him and causes him to fall down.
At that moment, Geppetto arrives to ask him
for some wood, and he sees his colleague in
a state of shock.
He questions him about what happened, but
he says that everything is fine.
Geppetto continues to tell him about his plans
on creating a puppet, naming it Pinocchio,
and touring it around the world to make a
more decent living for himself.
Still unable to bounce back from what he just
saw, Ciliegia blankly listens to him and decides
to give the magical log to his dear friend.
Geppetto examines it, leaving him in complete
disbelief that his friend would give him such
a fine piece of wood for free.
At home, he immediately starts carving the
log into a human-like shape.
The humble gift has given him a renewed vision
and inspiration in life.
While carving the puppet, he hears subtle
noises coming from inside it—a heartbeat.
Geppetto gets giddier to finish it, so he
starts adding eyes and other parts that resemble
the human body.
He calls Pinocchio repeatedly and instructs
it to say “babbo” which means “father,"
but the puppet remains immobile.
After some moments of silence, Pinocchio utters
the word “babbo," taking Geppetoo aback
in happiness.
He then runs outside to celebrate and let
his neighbors that he is now a father.
Excitedly, he comes back inside to do some
finishing touches on his creation, even making
clothes for him.
At this point, Pinocchio is fully alive and
conscious; to make him function to the fullest,
Geppetto teaches him how to walk, but as he
instructs the steps, Pinocchio runs outside.
He possesses incredible speed, leaving his
father behind worried as he slowly gets out
of sight.
Unfamiliar with the village, Pinocchio runs
into a home where a talking cricket tries
to help him by advising him about being an
obedient child.
The stubborn puppet gets fed up with the talking
cricket and throws a wooden mallet at it,
seriously injuring the creature.
He continues to sit by the fireplace where
he warms his feet, when Geppetto comes by
the home only to hear Pinocchio crying for
help, saying that his feet are gone after
falling asleep by the chimney.
Extremely worried, his father enters the house
through a window to his rescue and sees almost
half of his legs completely gone.
Geppetto carries him home, then scolds him
for running away and causing damage to his
beautifully crafted body.
Pinocchio begs him to make a new set of legs
for him, but his father refuses.
After some convincing, Geppetto gives in to
his pleas in exchange for him going to school.
The following day, Geppetto goes to the nearby
store to get his son a spelling book that
he needs for school.
However, he does not have money to purchase
it, making him hand over his jacket and waistcoat
to educate his son.
As they make their way to the school, Pinocchio
gets distracted by the puppet theater stationed
nearby before entering his class.
Unknown to Geppetto, his son leaves upon seeing
him return home.
He tries to go inside the theater, but the
man blocks his entrance because he has no
money.
Desperate to come in, Pinocchio sells his
spelling book to the store owner for four
coins and watches the puppet show afterward.
Along with other children, he gets entertained
by the show, especially that it’s his first
time seeing something of that kind.
The stage puppets notice Pinnochio in the
audience pretty soon and call him on stage
as he is a puppet as well.
They all welcome him with a big embrace, calling
him their wooden brother, interrupting the
show.
A big man named Mangiafuoco comes up on stage
to end their brief celebration and let the
show continue.
He drags Pinocchio off the stage after finding
out that he could move even without strings.
Meanwhile, Geppetto awaits for his son outside
the school, but the teacher repeatedly tells
him that a boy named Pinocchio never entered
his class.
His worries grow bigger as the puppet theater
is gone, and his son is nowhere to be found.
To ask about the whereabouts of the theater,
he approaches the store owner, who informs
him that Pinocchio entered the theater to
see the show.
Geppetto suspects that they robbed his son
because he was too well-made and decides to
set off on a journey to reunite with him.
Mangifuoco sits in front of a bonfire in the
middle of nowhere and instructs the other
puppets to bring Pinocchio to him to use him
as firewood to cook his dinner.
Fearful of their master, the puppets abide
against their will; one of them tells Pinocchio
that to be saved, he should touch the master’s
heart and be nice to him.
Pinocchio pleads with the puppeteer to let
him go to return home to his father, undoubtedly
worried about him.
Showing emotion, Mangiafuoco decides to let
go of him but chooses to burn another puppet.
However, Pinocchio is against the idea that
someone should pay for something he did and
accepts his fatal punishment.
Surprised by Pinocchio's act of selflessness,
Mangiafuoco releases him, making all the puppets
celebrate.
At daybreak, Mangiafuoco wakes Pinocchio up
to give him five gold coins to give to Geppetto
out of pity.
Sadly, he bids goodbye to the other puppets
who have given him a sense of belonging, even
for a brief amount of time.
In the rain, he makes his way home in hopes
of reuniting with his father.
Along the way, a cat and a fox are fishing
by the river; he asks them for some help but
gets ignored by them.
After realizing that Pinocchio has five gold
coins, they quickly approach the boy and suggest
that he should plant the coins in the Field
of Miracles, a place where they will sprout
in a tree full of money.
The duo continues to entice him about the
idea as they walk to a restaurant, where the
two devour significant portions of food.
That night, Pinocchio dreams that they make
it to the magical tree, and the three of them
collect coins from its branches.
His fantasy is cut short when the innkeeper
wakes him up, saying that the cat and the
fox are waiting for him at the end of the
woods.
Alone in the middle of the night, Pinocchio
bravely walks alone to the meeting area when
a familiar voice calls for him.
The talking cricket has reappeared and continuously
guides the boy.
According to him, Pinocchio should retrace
his steps and take the four remaining coins
to his poor father.
However, the boy refuses to believe the talking
cricket who advises him to be vigilant of
those who promise to make him rich in a blink
of an eye.
The stubborn Pinocchio has not changed his
ways; he refuses to believe the cricket, who
only wishes him safety, making him walk away
to reach the woods.
Towards the end of the forest, two hooded
assassins chase him, leading him into an abandoned
house.
He desperately knocks at the door, but a ghostly
girl from a window tells him that no one is
home.
Pinocchio asks for help from the girl, but
she cannot do so because she is dead.
Eventually, the two assassins grab the boy,
forcing him to spit the coins out of his mouth.
They then hang him on a tree and wait for
him to die to get the coins quickly.
Pinocchio dramatically remembers his father
and instantly regrets being a disobedient
child.
At daybreak, while the assassins, who are
the fox and the cat disguising themselves,
are asleep, a mythical coachman named Medoro
rescues Pinocchio from the tree and brings
him to the abandoned house where the blue-haired
fairy cares for him.
A snail lady, one of her servants, welcomes
two doctors and the cricket to Pinocchio's
room.
While the doctors examine his health, the
cricket scolds him for not taking his advice
seriously.
After the three guests leave the room, the
fairy lets him drink a medicine, which she
claims will heal him in a few days.
He hesitates to drink it because of its bitter
taste and repeatedly says that he doesn’t
mind dying right then and there.
Annoyed by his stubbornness, she summons four
rabbits carrying a coffin, which Pinocchio
gets afraid of.
The four rabbits drag him out of bed, but
he begs the fairy to give the medicine instead,
taking back his death wish.
In the dining room, the fairy questions Pinocchio
about his journey and how he ended up in the
magical place.
He tells the fairy that he entered a puppet
theater in the event that the school is closed;
he also lied about not paying for his entrance
in the puppet show.
Suddenly, his nose becomes longer with each
lie he tells, and he gets confused about this.
Finally, the fairy reveals to him that every
time he tells a lie, his nose will grow; she
is then forced to shorten his nose after the
things on the table are knocked over.
She calls a flock of woodpeckers to do the
job while Pinocchio watches, both amazed and
embarrassed.
He and the fairy share a special bond during
his stay, forming an unexpected friendship
between the two.
The fairy sends him off to find his father,
reminding him to find his way back to her
after his reunion with Geppetto.
Learning his lesson, Pinocchio returns home,
where coincidentally, he meets the cat and
the fox for the second time.
The boy still has no idea that the duo is
actually the hooded assassins who once put
his life in danger.
In an attempt to commence their evil plan
for the second time, they lead him to the
Field of Miracles once again, where they advise
him to plant the coins and gather water for
it.
While he runs farther to get some water, the
cat and the fox steal the buried coins, leaving
the poor boy penniless.
At the courthouse, Pinocchio reports the theft
to the gorilla judge, who asks him what he
wants to happen.
The boy replies that he wants justice and
for the five golden coins to be returned to
him.
Weirdly, justice does not favor the innocent
in that place, putting Pinocchio into a life
sentence.
The gorilla repeats that in their place, the
innocent go to prison.
Desperate to find a way out, he says that
he has committed a crime before, which practically
makes him guilty.
The gorilla rethinks about his sentence on
Pinocchio, frees him of his sentence, and
has him liberated.
Pinocchio resumes his long journey home only
to find out that Geppetto has left to search
for him in every place possible and decides
to search for him overseas in The Great Americas,
thinking that he is still in the hands of
Mangiafuoco.
Pinocchio gets to the shore and carelessly
dives into the sea.
However, he gets shipwrecked on an unknown
island, where a hooded person carries him
to safety.
As Pinocchio gains consciousness, he gets
up and sees the snail once again, and they
embrace.
The fairy enters the room, but now as a grown
woman, reminding him that it is still her—his
dear friend.
While eating, Pinocchio tells the fairy that
he does not want to be a puppet all his life;
he wants to become a boy like the others.
Feeling his sincerity, the fairy promises
to turn him into a real human boy if he studies
and behaves well.
The following day, Pinocchio attends school
right away, where the teacher scolds the disobedient
boys.
Another boy named Lucignolo is brought to
the classroom, where he is punished as well.
While the teacher writes on the board, the
naughty boy places a frog behind him as a
prank.
Not long after that, the teacher notices the
animal inside him, making the whole class
break into laughter.
This allows Lucignolo to escape class, where
Pinocchio follows and befriends him.
That night, Pinocchio finds out that he is
unwelcome to the fairy’s home after discovering
him skipping school.
From then on, Pinocchio attends classes and
becomes the most studious boy among his peers,
making him an excellent student.
This comes to the fairy’s attention and
commends Pinocchio for it, promising that
she will grant his wish of being a real boy
when tomorrow comes.
Happily, he runs outside to invite his friends
for a feast at the fairy’s home.
Suddenly, he hears a lady calling for Lucignolo,
so he runs to him while his friend hides.
He invites Lucignolo to his party, but he
turns down the invitation because he is going
to the “Land of Toys” where children like
them can have unlimited fun without schools
or adults.
That night, Pinocchio decides to accompany
his friend while waiting for a wagon to pass
by, transporting him to The Land of Toys.
His original plan is to stay in the village,
but after seeing multiple boys on the way
to have fun, he lets down his guard and decides
to join their journey as well.
All of them arrive at a mansion and immediately
play and start having fun.
They swim, chase each other, and do all sorts
of fun activities while the light lasts.
The coachman gives them a place to spend the
night, where they still have their fun.
The following day, Pinocchio wakes up with
donkey ears and finds Lucignolo in the same
situation—they are slowly turning into donkeys.
Both of them fall to the ground, losing their
balance as their arms and legs turn into hooves.
While screaming for help, their faces become
those of donkeys, and the coachman who lured
them into the place exalts in joy.
He sells them separately: Lucignolo remains
unsold, while a businessman plans to purchase
Pinocchio as the two friends cry upon being
apart.
The puppet-turned-donkey ends up in a circus
and is used for entertainment to perform dangerous
acrobatics.
In the audience, the fairy watches the show,
knowing that Pinocchio has suffered this sad
fate.
He trips and cripples himself while looking
at the fairy from the stage.
He is then brought out of the show after being
lame and unentertaining.
Moments later, the circus director decides
to drown him and use his skin to assemble
a drum.
After he is thrown in the sea, the fairy summons
a group of fish that nibbles away his donkey
skin, bringing his appearance back to normal.
In great confusion, the circus personnel sees
Pinocchio float up, but as a boy, he swims
away to search for his father despite the
director’s calls.
In the middle of the vast ocean, Pinocchio’s
struggles are far from over.
A terrible dogfish comes from behind him,
and the ravenous sea monster swallows him
alive.
Inside the fish’s belly, he calls out for
help when a tuna, which was also swallowed,
approaches him.
It tells the boy that asking for help is useless,
and the chances of getting out are little
to none.
According to the tuna, the only thing they
can do is wait for the dogfish to digest them,
which puts Pinocchio in a state of panic.
He then notices a faint light back inside
the fish’s belly.
Curious to find what it is, he approaches
the end, and to his surprise, sees Geppetto
also trapped inside.
Despite their grave and almost inescapable
situation, their unexpected reunion makes
them celebrate for some time.
The father and son embrace each other as tightly
as possible after being apart for such a long
time.
Geppetto reveals to his son that living inside
the fish is not so bad after all; because
of the creature eating non-stop, swarms of
fish enter its body, giving him enough food.
Determined to escape, Pinocchio tells his
father that life outside is much better and
that there is still a way for them to get
out.
He brings his father near the fish’s mouth
and convinces him to take advantage of its
open mouth while it sleeps.
Geppetto is scared to come out because of
his inability to swim, but Pinocchio assures
him that he swims well, and as he is made
of wood, he floats.
Hesitantly, Geppetto finally agrees, and the
both of them swim to safety with the help
of the tuna.
They swim until dawn and safely reach the
shore, where he expresses his gratitude to
the fish before it swims back to the deep.
After miles of walking from the beach to the
countryside, they spot an abandoned house
where they could rest for the time being.
They both lay in a makeshift bed, where Pinocchio
realizes that his father is getting sicker.
He goes to a nearby home, where a farmer hires
him to earn milk for his father.
He willingly works hard, which earns the farmer’s
respect.
He comes back to the house to take care of
his father’s needs and continues to work
for the following days while being trained.
From then on, he starts earning money while
he continues to study and help Geppetto, who
is still recovering.
Pinocchio once again meets the estranged fox
and cat, now badly reduced and struggling
with disabilities.
Learning his lesson and growing smarter, he
does not miss the opportunity to mock the
duo and ignore their apologies.
Geppetto and Pinocchio spend their peaceful
lives together in simplicity, fully content
with having each other.
On a random day of tending to the sheep, the
fairy appears out of nowhere to forgive the
boy for all the troubles he got into.
She reminds him to be wiser in the future
so that he can live joyously.
The fairy decides to grant Pinocchio his wish
after they embrace, so she carefully lays
him down to cast a spell that will turn him
into a human.
As he wakes up, Pinocchio is astonished to
feel his skin; he rushes home, shouting that
he is now a real boy.
This catches his father’s attention, so
he looks outside and proudly sees his son,
but this time, no longer a puppet but a real
living boy.
Both of them celebrate outside their humble
home, and they live happily ever after.